# Customer-Lifetime-Value-Modelling

### Context

There are many factors that can affect the success of a business. Customers or customers are one of the main factors that determine the success of the company. Therefore, it is not surprising to find a metric used to measure customer value to a company. One of them is *Customer Lifetime Value* (CLV). This calculation is often used to measure customer value. Translated literally, CLV means customer's age. What is meant by the age of the customer age here is not intended to be seen from the year of birth, but from the time span used by your company's products or services.

*Customer Lifetime Value* is one of the indicators used to determine the customer value of a company. This metric is considered accurate so it is widely used by companies in calculating the value of their customers. In simple terms, CLV is a prediction of the total value of revenue you can get from that customer.

The *Customer Lifetime Value* dataset of this project is the implementation of a company engaged in insurance, namely PT. X.


### Problem Statment

As digital adoption accelerates across industries, successful platform-based companies outside of insurance are already using CLV metrology to drive growth and enhance their business valuation. Companies like PT.X need to change their mindset to focus on Customer Lifetime Value (CLV) to maintain a profitable business.

One of the biggest challenges for insurance companies is solving the problem of being able to have a profitable business model for the company considering the way insurance works is that the insured party pays a premium to the insurance company and the insurance company is obliged to provide benefits to the insured party once a claim is occured.

CLV can be applied in insurance to maximize the value that each customer provides to the business to find out how influential the customer is to the company's profitability and is a valuable model to be studied by insurance companies, especially when companies want to segment customers.


### Goals

Based on these problems, both PT. X or other insurance companies certainly need to have a tool that can predict and determine the *Customer Lifetime Value* of the prospective customer or prospective insured. The existence of differences in various features can increase the accuracy of CLV predictions which can help companies to assess each customer who will bring profit and provide other policies or benefits that can be provided based on the predicted CLV.


### Analytic Approach

So, what we need to do is analyze the data to be able to find patterns of existing features and differentiate one customer from another.

Next, we will build a regression model that will help PT. X to be able to provide a predictive tool *Customer Lifetime Value* which will be useful for companies in determining how important a customer is to the company's profitability.


### Metric Evaluation

The evaluation metrics that will be used are *RMSE*, *MAE*, and *MAPE*, where *RMSE* is the mean value of the square root of the error, *MAE* is the average absolute value of the error, while *MAPE* is the average percentage error generated by the regression model. The smaller the resulting *RMSE*, *MAE*, and *MAPE* values, it means that the model is more accurate in predicting CLV according to the limitations of the features used.

- RMSE    : RMSE refers to Root MSE. RMSE gives more importance to the highest residuals, hence it is more sensitive to outliers whereas on the other hand MAE is more robust to outliers. RMSE and MSE works on the principle of averaging the errors while MAE calculation is based on the median of the residual.

- MAE     : This gives less weight to outliers, which is not sensitive to outliers.
- MAPE    : Similar to MAE, but normalized by true observation. Downside is when true obs is zero, this metric will be problematic.

In addition, we can also use the value of *R-squared* or *adj. R-squared* if the model that will be selected as the final model is a linear model. The *R-squared* value is used to determine how well the model can represent the overall variance of the data. The closer to 1, the more fit the model is to the observation data. However, this metric is not valid for non-linear or non-parametric models.


> For your reference, [Why Customer Lifetime Value is the key metric every digital business needs to focus on, and how to effectively adopt it in insurance](https://www.the-digital-insurer.com/cif-why-customer-lifetime-value-is-the-key-metric-every-digital-business-needs-to-focus-on-and-how-to-effectively-adopt-it-in-insurance/)
